9.5 Substitution Theorem:
    Any branch within a circut may be replaced by an equivalent branch,
    provided the replacment branch has the same current though it and voltage
    across as the original branch


9.6 Millman's Theorem:
    Used to simplify circuts having several paralleel voltage sources.
        We can convert a bunch of parallel voltage sources in to current
        sources, then combining current sources is trivial because we just add
        them.

    Eeq = Ieq * Req
        = (E1/R1 + E2/R2 + ... + En/Rn) * (R1||R2||Rn)

    
9.7 Reciprocity Theorem:
    Can only be used with single source circuts.  Can be applied to either
    voltage or current sources

    Voltage Sources:
        A voltage source causing a current I in any branch of a circuit may be
        removed from the original location and placed into that branch having
        the current I. The voltage source in the new location will produce a
        current in the original source location that is exactly equal to the
        originally calculated current, I.

        steps:
            1. The voltage source is replaced by a short circut in the original
               location
            2. The polarity of the source in the new location is such that the
               current direction in that branch remains unchanged

    Current Sources:
        A current source causing a voltage V at any node of a circuit may be
        removed from the original location and connected to that node. The
        current source in the new location will produce a voltage in the
        original source location that is exactly equal to the originally
        calculated voltage, V

        Steps:
            1. the current source is replaced by open circut in original
               location
            2. The direction of the source in the new location is such that the
               polarity of the voltage at the node to which the current source
               is now connected remains unchanged

    Basically you can change the circut however you want as long as the 
    voltages and currents in the circut are the same at all points

    




