14-5:
    Very early example of an altar piece
    appears in italy in the 13th century

    brings us to iconography - functinoand setting.  THe function of this is to
    mark the altar of a chapel.  Iconography is a kind of subject matter;
    though it is closer to the aspect of the subject matter that allow the
    piece to be identify.
        for example the scenes from the biography of saint francis (things in
        his life on the shelf)

14-8: Giotto
    if we compare this with 14-5 (Bonaventura), the paintung on the right is
    also an alter piece, though the iconography is different.  It pictures the
    virgin mary carrying jesus, surrounded by groups of angels

    though they look similar visually, if we look deeper we see differences.
    More 3d space in the giotto as well as the giotto is more of a uniform
    scene rather than a bunch of pieces mashed together as in the Bonaventura

14-10: Duccio
    Duccio was a well known painter as well, the same period of time as Giotto

    The most cellibrated painter in cienna (where he is from)

    THe subject seems to be the same between the Duccio and the Giotto - though
    stylistically we see how duccio's figure has a distinctly diffenert visual
    appearance than the Giotto.  

Italo-Byzantine:
    painters in italy who do so in the byzantine style

21-20: Masaccio
    fresco painting - painted onto plaster

    It is debated to be a altar piece, it was paid for by patrons who are
    pictured as the two people at the bottom on the left and right.  Directly
    behind christ is god the father, then above him is a dove that represents
    the holy spirit.  To the left is the virgin mary and to the right saint
    john

    he uses a mathematically percise geometry, an absolute vanishing point.

Naturalism is a big thing in late midevil through the renisance in art.
Perspective is just a part of that naturalism.
    

20-7: Eyck
    painter that lived in the belgum area

    double potrait of a wealthy merchant and his wife
    Often celibrated as the first double portrait of a couple.  

    what is the differnce between this and the alter pieces?

    Exploiting particular aspects of oil to achieve a specific look, shading
    and such allows home to paint in higher detail with greater depth

28-2:
    an early impressionist painting, the idea of creating a 'sketchy' or
    rouchly executed painting.

    There are sometimes connection between medium and style

    DIfferent iconography - landscape
        landscape becomes very important in the 19th century

25-21: Claeaz
    another iconography - still life painting, symbolic meaning

    called a vanitas still life:
        from the latin word meaning vanity - comes from verses in the old
        testament which reffers to death

        these are the skull paintings that are all alegorys of transience

We look at religious paintings with a natative theme, portiots landscapes
        


        
