Still looking at powerpoint 1:
    Between 28-2 and 25-21:
        we have different iconographic traditions, different conventional
        subjects that artists represent.  We like to think about how and why
        these different themes develop.

        "artists are not completley free actors", Artists have to work within
        traditional visual conventions

        There are various aspects/ dimensions of style:
            mythological, religious, portriats, etc..

            within these categories, there are more finely tuned styles,
            particular types of religious iconography, etc
        
    In Rembrandt's self portriat, we have to think about his self image:
        what was his roll in society that he was able to create a
        self-portratiure of himself - what was his status in society?o


Powerpoint 2 (13th-14th Century [Trecento] in Italian Art):
    Start out with the 'transitional' historical moment between the middle ages
    and the renisance - could be called the pre Renisance, also known as the
    late middle ages

    14-5:
        There were references to this new ritual where the priest, at the
        moment of the celibration of the yucarist? (the momemnt in which the
        bread and wine are transformed into the body and blood of christ) would
        stand with his back to the congregation, though the modern tradition is
        the priest facing the congregation, standing behind the
        altar, holding up the chalace and bread.  

        He is discussing this because this switch may be part of why the altar
        piece came about.  

        Though he is itallian, we note that berlinghieri paints ina  byzantine
        style

    14-5 vs 14-8:
        we notice that Giotto is much more lifelike, much more 3 dimensional.
        Viewers at the time noticed this style - and Giotto was very
        celibrated.  There is a poet who references Giotto as a genious:
            giotto's painting seemed like nature itself


            he was referenced as a 'type of renisaunce' a beauty that had been
            buried for centuries and just at that time coming to the surface
            again.  


    We see a progression from flatness with Birlingiari, to Cimabue to Giotto -
    three dimensionality ever rising between the three.  Cimabue in 14-6 is
    obviously tring to achieve 3 dimensionality but seems to just laythings on
    top of eachother, rather than having the angles and true illusion of 3d
    space.  Giotto definitely has much more 3d space




