Titian:
    Really the first of the vinecean painters in the 16th century to feel the
    impact artistically of the high renisance that were developing in flourence
    and rome.  His imagry evolved around heroic figures, either mythological or
    biblical - lots of heroic, physically dynamic figures.

    He keeps very vinecean colors - bright strong colors such as the reds.
        he synthasizes that with the emphasis of the character from central
        italy.


    disegno / colore debate
        Disegno: Like our word design
            bit different usage in italian - it can literally mean a drawing.

        Italian writers from this time often invoked an idea that the central
        Italians (flourence / rome) had the reputation of being disegno.

        to central italians:
            designo was #1, color came second - more of an add on.

    He did alot of different subjects:
        landscape, religious, mythological

    @22-36:
        Physically dynamic with heroic figures.  
       
    @22-37:
        Peraro is the guy on the very left who served as the admiral fighting
        against the ottoman empire in the 15th century

        We are more used to looking at altar pieces in which the main figure is
        centered, but in this one we the ier comes from the side.
            this may be from its position in the church.  Its almost like
            you're facing her and she's further on in the church, as if the
            painting is an extention of the church itself

            this leads into the baroque period where the focus is off to the
            side.  This whole period sort of begins with titian


    22-38:
        Done for duke of Ferrara, a collector of art

        one of the important things that developed at this time in italy is the
        development of the idea of art collecting.
            this started happening at this time.  Before this period there was
            art, but generally in the earlier periods when looking at some work
            of art it was an object done for a specific purpose where it could
            have a specific purpose (usually religious: either private devotion
            or for a large church).

            people begin to amass collections of art at this time
               
    @22-39:
        Done for another nobleman collector (from Raphael's hometown)
            We don't know for sure if he commissioned the paiting, but within a
            few years it was in his collection (probably commisioned)

        In the 16th century the painting was called simply the 'female nude',
        the name 'Venus of Urbino' didn't come around until the 19th century or
        so

        the servant in the background:
            getting clothing out of a chest.
            There's an outlook with a potted plant / tree to the left of the
            servants

        Tapastry on the valls, dog on the bed, she's holding strawberries

        Comparing this picture:
            we can compare it to Glorglone's Sleeping venus
            
            the reclining female nude is a popular iconographical theme

        This painting is not iconographically specific
            generally art historians have tended to believe that this is not
            supposed to represent venus.  THere is nothing iconographically
            specific that leads us to believe it is venus.

            Its probably implied that this is not venus, more of a 16th century
            pin up

        There were cortozons (not sure how to spel it)
            mistresses for noble men in Venice at this time

            they were high held in society.

    @22-41:
        Late work of Titian, finished just years before his death

        Intended as an altar piece - intended to serve as the altar piece for
        his own family tomb

        represent the virgin mary holding the body of christ (called Pieta)
            the old man kneeling in front of christ is sometimes identified as
            either saint gerome or nichodemus or saint joseph (not clear who he
            is supposed to represent)

        
        The man looks similar to titian himself

        The small painting in the bottom right:
            there is supposed to be titian and one of his cousins or something
            depicted in this painting

        Emphasis of this painting:
            interesting development of late titian - 
            his paintigs become very sketchy and rough.

                this comes from a vinicean traditino where people are muggy
                or sketched.

                Painters would tend to create softer transitions between the
                figures in the foreground and the background

            We might call this impressionistic
                more of a 19th century term but it kind of describes this use /
                application

        This one may have been slightly incomplete at the time of titian's
        death.
            it was finished by a pupil of titians



        Comment from the time about the style:
            The rough brushwork was associated with a kind of naturalism
                "the figures lacked only the breath of life"
                
